# Breast-Cancer-Identification
Bio-medical data analysis with Multi-layer Perceptron and Support Vector Machine (Special Thanks to Saman Sadeghi Afgeh for his collaboration with the experiments and paper)

Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women, and the second most common form of cancer worldwide. The American Cancer Society projects that 1.688.780 cancer cases will occur in the United States in 2017, 35.6% of which will lead to death. The early diagnosis and prognosis of breast cancer involves detection and classification of cancerous cells. This has led biomedical and bio-informatics specialists to become interested in the application of Machine Learning and other AI methods, including Artificial Neural Networks, Support Vector Machines, Decision Trees and Bayesian networks. These predictive methods proved to be very effective in identifying pathological conditions in cells and organs.
This experiment presents the application of two such algorithms, Multilayer Perceptrons (MLPs) and Support Vector Machines (SVMs), to the task of identifying the malignant or benign nature of cancerous cells removed from a breast mass. The aim of the experiment is to compare and discuss the accuracy, efficiency and general performance of the two algorithms while performing a predictive analysis on diagnostic data. 

This repository provides the code in matlab with necessary data files. The experiments , methods, results and evaluation have been provided in the PDF file. Read the readme.txt file on instructions on running the code in matlab (it'll ask you to install bio-infomatics toolbox if you dont have it already). 
